Final Project Baselines
------------------------------------------
This repo contains some baseline implementations of an Eyeriss-like architecture,a simba-like (NVDLA style) architecture,
a simple weight stationary architecture, a processing-in-memory architecture, and an output stationary architecture.
Please find them in the `designs` folder. *Note that the processing-in-memory architecture folder contains [a link to another repo](https://github.com/nelliewu95/processing-in-memory-example).*

### System requirement
In order to run the example baselines, you need to use either 
[the docker for lab4](https://github.com/nelliewu95/accelergy-timeloop-infrastructure) 
or manually install the Accelergy-Timeloop evaluation system. Refer to lab4 readme for more instructions in terms of docker app installation instructions. 

More support are added to the tools for these final project baselines, so please update your setup to the newest version of the tools before you start 
your project:

- If you are using the docker, please perform a `pull` of the docker image before you start the project, 
  Please run the following command inside the directory that contains the docker-compose.yaml file to get the latest docker:
  
  ```
  docker-compose pull
  ```
- If you plan to use manual installations, please `git pull` the source code for the tools before you start your project. 

### File Structure
- example_designs: 
   - architecture descriptions, compound component descriptions, 
  constraints descriptions, mapper descriptions for the example designs.
   - note that for each architecture, we have 2 constraint files:
        1. *_arch_constraints.yaml describes the necessary hardware and dataflow constraints
        2. *_map_constraits.yaml describes the map space optimizations for the  designs
- layer_shapes: 
    - Example workloads: AlexNet, VGG01, VGG02
- scripts
    - A set of scripts for generating your own workloads in Timeloop format
    - Instructions:
        - `cd scripts`
        - modify the `cnn_layers.py` file to describe your own workload
        - `python3 construct_workloads.py <my_dnn_model_name>`

### Run simulations

To run a simulation using timeloop-accelergy system you should `cd` to the specific design's folder and run timeloop
simulations on a specific workload

Here is an example for running AlexNet Layer1 on the `simple_weight_stationary` architecture: 
```
cd example_designs/simple_weight_stationary
timeloop-mapper arch/simple_weight_stationary.yaml arch/components/*.yaml mapper/mapper.yaml constraints/*.yaml ../../layer_shapes/AlexNet/AlexNet_layer1.yaml
```

You will see the following outputs generated:
- timeloop-mapper.accelergy.log: accelergy's runtime info while generating the ERT.
- timeloop-mapper.ART.yaml: the area reference table generated by Accelergy for the architecture
- timeloop-mapper.ART_summary.yaml: the area reference table for the components as well as the associated plug-ins used for generating the outputs.
- timeloop-mapper.ERT.yaml: the energy reference table generated by Accelergy for the architecture.
- timeloop-mapper.ERT_summary.yaml: the energy reference table for the components as well as the associated plug-ins used for generating the outputs.
- timeloop-mapper.flattened_architecture.yaml: the fully defined and flattened architecture interpreted by Accelergy.
- timeloop-mapper.log: timeloop runtime info.
- timeloop-mapper.map.txt: the best mapping found by Timeloop mapper.
- timeloop-mapper.stats.txt: the runtime behaviors of the components in the design generated by Timeloop.
- timeloop-mapper.ma+stats.xml: the raw information generated by Timeloop -- you don't need to read into it.

If you prefer to run the simulation in background without the interactive thread updates, please trun of the `live-status` flag in
`mapper/mapper.yaml` in each design folder.

** Note that for the provided designs and workloads, your simulation should generally converge within 30 mins. Once you see
the simulations converging, you can press `ctrl + C` to manually stop them. They sometimes will take much longer to 
automaticaly stop as we set the converging cretiria to be pretty high to avoid early-stop with subooptimal mappings. 
Please use you own judgement. **


### How to use these baselines?
As described in the final project information slides, you can use the different baselines for different final project ideas.
Please see the detailed description [here](https://learning-modules.mit.edu/materials/index.html?uuid=/course/6/sp20/6.825#materials)
  
*If your final project needs simulation/design support that is not currently available in the provided framework/examples,
 please reach out to the course staff **BEFORE** you get started on designing the project*.

###  Related reading
 - [eyeriss-like design](https://people.csail.mit.edu/emer/papers/2017.01.jssc.eyeriss_design.pdf)
 - [simba-like architecture](https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~ysshao/assets/papers/shao2019-micro.pdf)
 - simple weight stationary architecture: you can refer to the related lecture notes
 - simple output stationary architecture: you can refer to the related lecture notes
